Test for use of openwsn package as a sock implementation. Depends on #8570.

Includes two applications for testing:
 1. server -- essentially the examples/nanocoap_server application
 1. client -- CLI for sending a CoAP request; based on examples/gcoap, but uses nanocoap.

Must specify BOARD="iotlab-m3" when compile. Otherwise compiles OpenWSN as native and errors out. Copied in nanocoap from current master branch as first commit.

# Running on FIT IoT-LAB
We must use iotlab-m3 nodes ("m3" for short) to test. It is easy to use m3 nodes from the FIT IoT-LAB. This description uses three nodes:

 1. RPL root
 1. nanocoap server
 1. nanocoap client

The description below uses IoT-LAB CLI tools to setup and run the experiment. See the [tool documentation](https://github.com/iot-lab/iot-lab/wiki/CLI-Tools) for more details.

## Setup experiment
First, startup a terminal and allocate three m3 nodes:

    $ iotlab-experiment submit -n owsn_sock -d 30 -l 3,archi=m3:at86rf231+site=grenoble

We'll need the IDs for the nodes. Display them with:

    $ iotlab-experiment get -i NNN -ri

NNN is the id for the experiment generated by the previous command.

Next, we want to see the text output from the nodes, and we likely will want to send them commands. So, we must startup a terminal for each.

    $ ssh USERNAME@grenoble.iot-lab.info

    $ nc m3-NNN.grenoble.iot-lab.info 20000

You must supply your IoT-LAB credentials (USERNAME), and the unique node ID (NNN) for each terminal.

Next, go back to the initial terminal where you set up the experiment. Flash the firmware on to the nodes as described in the subsections below.

### Server
One node runs the nanocoap server firmware.

    $ iotlab-node --update server/bin/iotlab-m3/owsn_sock_server_test.elf -l grenoble,m3,NNN

NNN is the ID of the node to run.

### RPL root and Client
These two nodes run the client firmware.

    $ iotlab-node --update client/bin/iotlab-m3/owsn_sock_client_test.elf -l grenoble,m3,NNN+PPP

NNN and PPP are the IDs of the two nodes to run.

When the flash completes, you see the initial text output for the nodes on the individual terminals set up for them.

Next, initialize RPL routing on the RPL root node. Use its terminal for this purpose.

    > rplroot

You should see the RPL rank is 256.

Next, wait! We need to wait for the RPL network to initialize. **This step may take a few minutes**. Use the *ifconfig* command to determine when initialization has completed. Use the client node terminal for this purpose.

    > ifconfig
    inet6 fe80::35d:f665:106b:1115
    RPL rank: 65535


Initially, this command shows RPL Rank is 65535. When the RPL network is ready, the rank will become a smaller number. Also notice RPL generates a global address.

    > ifconfig
    inet6 bbbb::35d:f665:106b:1115
    RPL rank: 2816


Unfortunately, we cannot use the terminal to show when the server node is ready. However, we assume that when the client node is ready, the server node also is ready. Below is example output from the server at startup. The global address substitutes "bbbb" for the prefix in the address below.

    owsn sock server test
    Waiting for address autoconfiguration...
    Configured network interfaces:
    inet6 fe80::3a5d:f965:106b:1115
    RPL rank: 65535


## Run experiment
This section describes how to use the terminal access to operate each node.

On the client node, request a value from the server. Be sure to use the global address for the server node.

    > coap get ADDR 5683 /riot/board

    nanocoap_cli: sending msg ID 1, 17 bytes
    nanocoap: response Success, code 2.05, 9 bytes
    iotlab-m3

