# FAQ  {#coc-faq}

This FAQ attempts to address common questions and concerns around the RIOT
community's [Code of Conduct][CoC]. If you still have questions after
reading it, please feel free to [contact us][CoC-question-mail].

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Why have you adopted a Code of Conduct?

If you're familiar with the RIOT
community, you'll probably notice that the Code basically matches what we
already do. Think of this as documentation: we're taking implicit expectations
about behavior and making them explicit.

We're doing this because the RIOT community is growing faster than any of us
could have anticipated. This is on balance a very positive thing, but as we've
grown past the point where it's possible to know the whole community we think
it's very important to be clear about our values.

We know that the RIOT community is open, friendly, and welcoming. We want to
make sure everyone else knows it too.

### What does it mean to "adopt" a Code of Conduct?

For the most part, we don't think it means large changes. We think that the text
does a really good job describing the way the RIOT community already conducts
itself. We expect that most people will simply continue to behave in the awesome
way they have for years.

However, we do expect that people will abide by the spirit and words of the CoC
when in "official" RIOT spaces. This code has been adopted by the RIOT community
as a whole. That means that it'll apply in all community spaces.

In practice, this means the [RIOT forum](https://forum.riot-os.org), the Matrix
chats (e.g., [`#riot-os`](https://matrix.to/#/#riot-os:matrix.org) or
[`#riot-os-off-topic`](https://matrix.to/#/#riot-os-off-topic:matrix.org)),
mailing lists (e.g., security@riot-os.org), bug tracking and code review tools,
and "official" RIOT events such as Hack'n'ACKs or RIOT summits. In addition,
violations of this code outside these spaces may affect a person's ability to
participate within them.

### What happens if someone violates the Code of Conduct?

Our intent is that anyone in the community can stand up for this code, and
direct people who're unaware to this document. If that doesn't work, or if you
need more help, you can contact <conduct@riot-os.org>. For more details please see
our [Reporting Guidelines](@ref coc-reporting-guide).

### Why do we need a Code of Conduct? Everyone knows not to be a jerk.

Sadly, not everyone knows this.

However, even if everyone was kind, everyone was compassionate, and everyone was
familiar with codes of conduct it would still be incumbent upon our community to
publish our own. Maintaining a code of conduct forces us to consider and
articulate what kind of community we want to be, and serves as a constant
reminder to put our best foot forward. But most importantly, it serves as a
signpost to people looking to join our community that we feel these values are
important.

### This is censorship! I have the right to say whatever I want!

You do -- in *your* space. If you'd like to hang out in *our* spaces (as
clarified above), we have some simple guidelines to follow. If you want to, for
example, form a group where RIOT is discussed using language inappropriate for
general channels then nobody's stopping you. We respect your right to establish
whatever codes of conduct you want in the spaces that belong to you. Please
honor this Code of Conduct in our spaces.

#### References
This FAQ was adapted from the [Django Code of Conduct FAQ](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/faq/)

[CoC-question-mail]: mailto:riot@riot-os.org
[CoC]: @ref coc
