
 - RDM: 1
 - Title: RIOT Design Goals
 - Author: Daniel Petry
 - Status: Active
 - Type: Consensus
 - Created: May 2019

## Abstract

This document presents key design aspects of the RIOT operating system: its
application contexts and design rationales.  It aims to reflect a consensus on
the reasoning behind RIOT design, in order to help new contributors get up to
speed more quickly and provide common ground for technical debates.

## Status

This document is a product of the community of RIOT maintainers, and aims to
represent the consensus within this community. The content of this document is
licensed with a Creative Commons CC-BY-SA license.

## Terminology

Throughout this document, the term "users" refers to developers who are using
RIOT as a basis to implement application software, without editing RIOT's
source code. The term "developers" refers to contributors to the source code of
RIOT.

# 1. Introduction

The RIOT developer community has grown from a state of a few developers in
relatively close contact to a highly distributed worldwide organisation with
members joining continuously. As a result, passing on underlying understanding
and assumptions that drive design decisions via word-of-mouth is no longer
feasible.

This document represents the consensus on a set of generalised, loose
requirements for RIOT (in a voluntary open source context, gathering strict
requirements is neither possible nor welcome).

The first section discusses some of the concrete [use cases](#2-use-cases)
which RIOT is driven by, to give a broad awareness to the developer where and
how their features will be used. Based on this bigger picture, the [design
philosophies](#3-design-philosophies) in the second section provide specific
guidance for design. These include a focus on constrained devices, a short
learning curve, and the versatility to support a huge variety of devices and
functionality.

# 2. Use cases

RIOT is a general purpose IoT operating system for low-end devices, such as
those described in [1]. These devices have a low memory footprint of kilobytes
rather than megabytes, going down to a few kilobytes in certain cases. As such,
RIOT targets separate use cases from embedded Linux. Below is a comprehensive,
but non-exhaustive list of RIOT use cases, including the general requirements
placed on the devices for each one.

These requirements demonstrate the need for RIOT to support an extremely large
number of hardware configurations: various microcontrollers bundled with
various sensors and actuators and various network transceivers (radio and
wired). On these, a large variety of software configurations is run: various
link layer technologies and network protocol stacks, serving user application
logic requiring various levels of complexity, reliability, or real-time
support.

## 2.1. Environmental sensing

Networks of remote sensor nodes can be deployed to monitor the environment (air
composition, temperature, light intensity, water quality...), or
assist with urban planning. These devices can be distributed on their own or
fit to infrastructure. In particular, the devices need to:

  - Collect data on timescales of the order of hours or longer.
  - Potentially be able to send data over long ranges with low power.
  - Potentially operate for years without power infrastructure or maintenance.

## 2.2. Rapid prototyping, research, and experimentation

In experimentation and hacking situations, development needs to be easily
accessible, and allow a short development time and quick results. In
particular, this means that the software and hardware should:

  - Let users easily write, load and run applications.
  - Let users easily port third party libraries.
  - Be usable with or without different features, including networking.
  - Come with an easy-to-use, versatile toolkit that has a minimum of setup time.
  - Let users easily run the same programs on different hardware.

## 2.3. Logistic tracking

Sensors that record environmental conditions and location can be used to manage
goods in transit. In particular, these sensors need to:

  - Last for several months without charging.
  - Securely collect, store and transmit sensitive data.
  - Send data over long ranges to regional infrastructure.

## 2.4. Physical system monitoring and control

Distributed networks of sensors (torque, rotary position...) and actuators
(motors, solenoids...) can be employed in certain control applications, such as
automotive systems, robotics, or Industry 4.0. In particular, the nodes need to:

  - Collect and send data with a low latency, or at least a well synchronized
    timestamp.
  - Potentially run control algorithms themselves.
  - Have the timing precision to support time sensitive control.

## 2.5. Edge systems for building management and automation

Various sensing (light, temperature, humidity...) and environmental control
tasks (heating, ventilation, access control...) can be done by edge nodes in
buildings. In particular, the nodes need to be able to:

  - Connect to building management system components from a range of vendors
    via a range of domain specific protocols, such as BACnet and Modbus.
  - Integrate with in-house cyber security management systems.

## 2.6. Smart home

Smart home use cases have monitoring and control aims which overlap with
commercial building management. However, in the smart home there is less
technical equipment, different protocols, and different system management
criteria. In particular, the nodes here need to be able to:

  - Connect to home networking equipment from a range of vendors via common
    protocols for constrained devices in the home, such as BLE, 802.15.4 and
    WiFi.
  - Ensure the privacy of end users in an easy-to-use fashion.

## 2.7. Daughterboards

Plug-in boards can give devices immediate support for a protocol or standard,
or let them outsource a task from the main processor. In particular, this
requires the board to:

  - Support on-chip low-level wired communication.

## 2.8. Education

The broad technical scope of RIOT makes it useful as a basis for education.
In particular, this requires:

  - The presence of didactic materials related to RIOT.
  - The presence of tooling suitable to a classroom context.

# 3. Design philosophies

Below are the design philosophies that are typically followed by developers to
cater for the above use cases. The sections below include descriptions of
tradeoffs between the philosophies, and where the resolutions typically fall.

## Suitability for constrained devices

"Constrained" means that available memory, energy, and processor cycles are so
reduced as to become a dominant consideration in design requirements [1].

#### Energy efficiency

RIOT nodes sometimes need to last for several years without external power, so
they need to manage energy carefully. RIOT's tickless scheduler lets devices
sleep while they aren't active.

Developers of modules outside the core should leverage the benefits and address
the programming challenges of such a scheduler. An idling device should
conserve energy wherever possible, by default. For case specific power
management, appropriate control should be available to the user. This should
not include having to cope with scheduler details or set hardware power modes
explicitly.

#### Small memory footprint

Apart from being optimized for low memory usage, RIOT is modular so unused
features don't use up precious RAM or flash. Almost all features are provided
as optional modules that have to be enabled explicitly at compile time.  A
minimal RIOT configuration starts at around <2KiB flash and <1.5KiB RAM
(including stack space for one thread and ISRs).

Starting from there, the memory usage depends on the enabled features:

- Non-networked control loop / sensing applications can fit on very small MCUs
  (eg., an Atmega328P with 2KiB RAM)
- 6lowPAN networking currently starts at ~40KiB ROM and ~10KiB RAM
- A 6LoWPAN enabled CoAP server and COSE end-to-end security (with ed25519
  signatures in software) requires ~60KiB ROM and ~15KiB RAM
- a file system adds ~15 KiB ROM and ~2 KiB RAM

#### Networking

RIOT should deliver communication robustness and interoperability. We prefer
open standards over proprietary solutions.

The interfaces to network stacks (netdev, sock) are designed to be agnostic to
the stack itself. The stacks themselves can therefore be interchanged freely.
The design of the default networking stack (GNRC) prioritizes modularity and
extensibility over memory usage. This ensures that users can adapt the stack to
their use cases, and developers can easily extend it as further standards and
amendments are published.

## Short learning curve

RIOT's use cases involve makers, researchers in (non-)computer science fields,
broadly skilled engineers making vertically integrated IoT proofs-of-concept,
and experienced embedded C developers.

These should be comfortable using RIOT and its tooling, on typical platforms.
RIOT should demand as little RIOT-specific learning as possible. It should,
therefore, adhere to common systems and networking standards.

## Versatility

The use cases for real-time embedded systems are manifold, and so are their
requirements. Therefore, design decisions in RIOT should not prefer one
technology or one protocol over another.

Default configurations should support as many users and use cases as possible.
RIOT should aim at providing everything users need, either in its code base or
in the external packages it supports. The list of hardware, algorithms and
other elements that RIOT supports should constantly be expanding.

## Vendor and technology independence

Vendors and technologies are supported equally, except for a bias towards open
standards. This means users can choose what's best for them, without being led
by RIOT. Moreover, RIOT is Free Software [2], which means users are free to use
it as they wish without lock-in.

## Modularity

RIOT decomposes into fine-grained modules. This level of modularity lets RIOT
address many different memory, functionality, and performance demands. It also
helps development efforts to scale in a widely distributed community.

Modules should be abstracted from one another as cleanly as possible. It should
be easy for users to manage or exploit this modularity, for example through
configuration methods, easy integration of third-party source code, or
different levels of modularity. The granularity of sub-modules for a module
should be chosen pragmatically, taking the type, context, and impact of the
module into account. Users shouldn't want to split modules, but they shouldn't
be unnecessarily fine-grained either.

## Cross-hardware portability

Users might want to write a program for one piece of hardware, and later run it
on another. RIOT should let user code be completely portable, so long as it
remains valid with the hardware.

The hardware abstraction layer should be stable, well defined and consistent.
Above the HAL, the only thing that modules should know about hardware is
whether its build dependencies are provided or not. If they aren't, the module
should adapt accordingly, or not compile.

## Real-time capabilities

Different real-time guarantees are required for different use cases. Low
frequency sensing needs only soft real-time support and can handle less timing
accuracy so long as the timers support long timescales. Sensing and control
applications which do not require hard real-time guarantees are also supported.

RIOT should deliver soft real-time guarantees which address the use cases given
in section 2. It should provide timers which can competently handle the
timescales of any application.

## Interoperability

RIOT nodes need to communicate reliably with non-RIOT nodes by carefully
implementing open protocol standards or identical technological specifications.

RIOT should support standards once they have reached a certain level of
maturity and popularity. It should be configurable so that users can choose
which (optional) features of specifications they want to include.  Whatever the
configuration, nodes should handle all possible traffic in a compliant manner.

## Stability

Nodes shouldn't fail because of RIOT, whatever the platform. Assuming perfect
hardware and a moderately well-written application, they should be able to run
indefinitely.

The testing and peer review processes that ensure this should be under
continuous review and refinement, including automating them where it's
possible. Error handling should guarantee stability with minimal memory usage.

## Unified APIs

RIOT wants to ease development for users by providing a similar "look and feel"
across all our APIs.

RIOT's interfaces should only differ in the ways that their modules differ.
Where possible, layers should exist that sit on top of a certain class of
modules to give an identical interface to the user. Semantic and naming
conventions should be consistent throughout the system.

## Cyber security

RIOT nodes need to be resilient against cyber attacks.

It should be hard against all the threats a node is likely to experience,
depending on the situation, including those from computers with many times
their processing power. Security should be as easy to use as possible while
still strong. Security flaws should be patched as quickly as possible by
servicing a security alert channel with high priority. Convenient updating
mechanisms should allow users to apply patches to their nodes, wherever they
are.

# Acknowledgements

This document follows previous work on documenting RIOT's design priorities [3]
[4].

Thanks to E. Baccelli, K. Bannister, M. Lenders, M. Rottleuthner, K. Schleiser,
T. Schmidt, M.  Waehlisch, K. Zandberg, and all others who have contributed to
the review of this document.

# References

[1] [C. Bormann, M. Ersue, A. Keranen: "Terminology for Constrained-Node
Networks.", RFC, No. 7228, RFC-Editor, May 2014.](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7228) \
[2] [“What Is Free Software?” _GNU Operating System_, 15 Dec. 2018,
www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.en.html.](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.en.html) \
[3] [Emmanuel Baccelli, Oliver Hahm, Mesut Günes, Matthias Wählisch, Thomas C.
Schmidt, "RIOT OS: Towards an OS for the Internet of Things," in Proceedings of
the 32nd IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM),
Poster, p. 79–80, IEEE Press, April 2013.](https://www.riot-os.org/assets/pdfs/riot-infocom2013-abstract.pdf) \
[4] [E. Baccelli, C. Gündogan, O. Hahm, P. Kietzmann, M. Lenders, H. Petersen,
K. Schleiser, T.C. Schmidt, M. Wählisch: "RIOT: an Open Source Operating System
for Low-end Embedded Devices in the IoT", IEEE Internet of Things Journal, Vol.
5, No. 6, p. 4428- 4440, IEEE, December 2018.](http://ilab-pub.imp.fu-berlin.de/papers/bghkl-rosos-18-prepub.pdf)

# Revisions

Rev0: initial document

## Contact

The author of this memo can be contacted via email at danielpetry@cantab.net
