.. _riot-201405---release-notes:

============================
RIOT-2014.05 - Release Notes
============================

RIOT is a real-time multi-threading operating system that supports a
range of devices that are typically found in the Internet of Things:
from 16-bit microcontrollers to light-weight 32-bit processors.

RIOT is based on the following design principles: energy-efficiency,
real-time capabilities, small memory footprint, modularity, and uniform
API access, independent of the underlying hardware (this API offers
partial POSIX compliance).

New features
============

Core
----

-  introduced explicit core/cpu interface through a set of header files
-  added reboot and panic functions
-  added a node name to the sysconfig struct
-  added the ability to send a message to the current thread's message
   queue

Supported platforms
-------------------

Additional support for the following boards:

-  Arduino Due
-  UDOO board
-  X86 via qemu
-  Zolertia Z1

Network stack
-------------

-  added net_if as abstraction layer between transceiver module and L3
   protocol
-  added support for auto initializing of the 6LoWPAN network stack
-  added support for RFC5444 via oonf_api (from OLSR.org)
-  added a Wireshark dissector for nativenet packets
-  introduced low-level radio driver interface
-  added a default transceiver for all boards
-  common IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver API definition
-  added standard way to query CCA (Clear Channel Assessment) status
-  enabled nonces in interests for CCN-lite (Content Centric Networking)
-  added a route shell command

System libraries
----------------

-  added quad-precision math library (quad_math)

Automated Testing
-----------------

-  added Travis CI based build tests
-  added support for a Jenkins CI server
-  added a unittest framework (based on embunit)
-  added unittests for most core functions

POSIX compliance
----------------

-  pthread support including

   -  dynamic memory pool and cleanup handlers
   -  mutexes
   -  condition variable implementation
   -  reader/writer lock
   -  pthread_barrier_\* functions

Native
------

-  added a valgrind and cachegrind targets
-  added profiling support

Changes
=======

.. _core-1:

Core
----

-  initialize hwtimer automatically
-  optimized thread status field usage
-  moved oneway_malloc to sys
-  prefixed API functions correctly

.. _network-stack-1:

Network stack
-------------

-  major refactoring and decoupling
-  refactor use of vtimer
-  fixed forwarding
-  added IoT-LAB M3 Open Node support and dropped TelosB support
   temporarily for OpenWSN
-  moved ETX beaconing to a module on its own
-  various byte order and other bug fixes

Drivers
-------

-  added low-level driver interface for unified CPU peripheral
   abstraction for GPIO, ADC, PWM, Timer and UART
-  handle race conditions preventing timers to be set correctly on
   MSP430 MCUs
-  several CC2420 fixes

.. _system-libraries-1:

System libraries
----------------

-  auto_init is used by default
-  changed function prototype for shell handlers

Other
-----

-  cleaned up Makefile system and simplified binary directory
-  improved documentation for core and sys
-  build system uses PKG dependency
-  build system sets include paths automatically
-  black and white lists for applications and tests
-  add stacksize checker for DEBUG macro
-  styling corrections
-  fixed license boiler plates
-  set lpc2k_pgm return value correctly
-  various bug fixes and cleanups

Fixed Issues from the last release
==================================

-  #45: bit field order in the fcf may be wrong The CC2420 FIFO expects
   the IEEE802.15.4 FCF field in reversed bit order. With this release
   the byte order is now handled by the net_if module and all device
   specific handling is done by the driver.
-  #82: Setting STATUS_REPLY_BLOCKED thread to STATUS_PENDING though it
   is not handled yet In some rare cases the status of a thread might
   falsely change to STATUS_PENDING instead of STATUS_REPLY_BLOCKED.
-  #455: sha256 is broken on MSP430 Fixed.
-  #498: native is segfaulting at startup Fixed by several PRs (#501,
   #583, and #588).
-  #505: native on FreeBSD is broken Fixed by PR #1022.

Known Issues
============

network related issues
----------------------

-  #21: Deal with stdin in bordermultiplex.c Not all supported platforms
   provide a stdin in the current release. However, the implementation
   of the 6LoWPAN border router won't work without stdin.
-  #861: neighbor discovery for 6LoWPAN not working Duplicate address
   detection according to RFC 6775 is also missing.

native related issues
---------------------

-  #495: native not float safe When the FPU is used when an asynchronous
   context switch occurs, either the stack gets corrupted or a floating
   point exception occurs.
-  #499: native is segfaulting on heavy network usage Sending more than
   100 packets per second causes a SEGFAULT in RIOT native.
-  #534: native debugging on osx fails Using valgrind or gdb with a
   nativenet target in OSX leads to "the network" being stuck (gdb) or
   the whole process being stuck (valgrind).
-  #715: test_hwtimer_wait fails on native The problem appears to be
   lost signals and depends on the CPU speed.
-  #787: reboot not working with open file descriptors on native If for
   example a tap device is in use, the reboot command fails.
-  #862: sometimes the tap bridge does not work in native Sometimes
   (rather suddenly) packages are not received by a TAP and won't be
   received even if I reconfigure the bridge.
-  #1127: Random build fails on OSX Building for native on OSX often
   fails - Workaround: build using -B flag, e.g.: make -B clean all

other platform related issues
-----------------------------

-  #426: Interrupt handling on MSP430 is buggy UART and timer handling
   is currently unstable on MSP430 based platforms
-  #1232: x86 doesn't build on OS X with clang Current version of the
   x86 port doesn't build for OS X with clang.

For all issues and open pull requests please check the RIOT issue
tracker: https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/issues

More information
================

http://www.riot-os.org

Mailing lists
-------------

-  RIOT OS kernel developers list
-  devel@riot-os.org (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/devel)
-  RIOT OS users list
-  users@riot-os.org (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/users)
-  RIOT commits
-  commits@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/commits)
-  Github notifications
-  notifications@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/notifications)

License
=======

-  All sources and binaries that have been developed at Freie
   Universität Berlin and most of the other code are licensed under the
   GNU Lesser General Public License version 2 as published by the Free
   Software Foundation.
-  Some external sources, especially files developed by SICS are
   published under a separate license.

All code files contain licensing information.
