.. _riot-201607---release-notes:

============================
RIOT-2016.07 - Release Notes
============================

RIOT is a real-time multi-threading operating system that supports a
range of devices that are typically found in the Internet of Things:
8-bit microcontrollers, 16-bit microcontrollers and light-weight 32-bit
processors.

RIOT is based on the following design principles: energy-efficiency,
real-time capabilities, small memory footprint, modularity, and uniform
API access, independent of the underlying hardware (this API offers
partial POSIX compliance).

RIOT is developed by an international open source community which is
independent of specific vendors (e.g. similarly to the Linux community)
and is licensed with a non-viral copyleft license (LGPLv2.1), which
allows indirect business models around the free open-source software
platform provided by RIOT.

About this release:
===================

This release was focused primarily on fixing bugs, but also adds two new
supported radio transceivers: CC2420 and CC2538. This new radio support
allows to new interoperability tests with other OS, allowing code size
comparison and overall network performance for platforms based on these
radios.

About 198 pull requests with about 325 commits have been merged since
the last release and about 65 issues have been solved. 46 people
contributed with code in 112 days. 632 files have been touched with
19863 insertions and 3682 deletions.

Notations used below:
=====================

-  means new feature/item

-  means modified feature/item

-  means removed feature/item

New features and changes
========================

General
-------

-  No major changes or new features coming on this release.

Core
----

-  Introduced Mailbox IPC API (#4919)

-  Improved clist

Network Stack
-------------

-  Introduction of netstats in several platforms.

-  RPL optional auto initialization

Packages
--------

-  Added statistics for TLSF package (#5418)
-  Added U8g2 library for monochrome displays (#5549)

-  Added on-the-fly content creation for CCN-lite.

Platforms
---------

-  nrf52dk: add support for building with Nordic SoftDevice (6lo over
   BLE)
-  Added support for Libellium's waspmote-pro board.
-  Added support for the iotlab A8/M3 node
   (https://www.iot-lab.info/hardware/a8/)
-  Added initial and rudimentary port for TI cc2650stk "SensorTag"
   (#4675)
-  Split Zolertia Remote support into Remote Prototype A (remote-pa) and
   Remote Revision A (remote-reva)

Drivers
-------

-  Texas Instruments CC2538 RF driver (PR #5291)
-  Texas Instruments CC2420 RF driver (PR #5591)
-  Bosch BM180 sensor.
-  Added XBee optional AES encryption support

System libraries
----------------

-  Several xtimer bug fixes

Build System
------------

-  Ubuntu 16.04 packaged gcc-arm-none-eabi toolchain can now be used to
   compile RIOT for ARM boards

Other
-----

-  Reworked UART and code factorisation for ATmega CPUs.

API changes
-----------

-  Unified interface of hashing functions

Fixed Issues from the last release
==================================

-  #3824: native: gnrc: hardcore pinging crashes.
-  #4583: cpp11: clang doesn't allow mutex_t to be used with constexpr
   All cpp11-\* tests fail with clang.
-  #5388: gnrc_sixlowpan_iphc_nhc: receiving NHC compressed UDP packets
   hits assert in IPv6 (Fixed by #5281).

Known Issues
============

-  #3075: nhdp: unnecessary microsecond precision NHDP works with timer
   values of microsecond precision which is not required. Changing to
   lower precision would save some memory.
-  #3086: Max. packet length for AT86RF2XX
-  #4048: potential racey memory leak According to the packet buffer
   stats, flood-pinging a multicast destination may lead to a memory
   leak due to a race condition. However, it seems to be a rare case and
   a completely filled up packet buffer was not observed.
-  #5005: ndp: router advertisement sent with global address Under some
   circumstances a router might send RAs with GUAs. While they are
   ignored on receive (as RFC 4861 specifies), RAs should have
   link-local addresses and not even be send out this way.
-  #5007: gnrc icmpv6: Ping reply goes out the wrong interface
-  #5055: cpuid: multiple radios will get same EUI-64 Nodes with
   multiple interfaces might get the same EUI-64 for them since they are
   generated from the same CPU ID. #5230: gnrc ipv6: multicast packets
   are not dispatched to the upper layers. (Fix exists, but was
   postponed)
-  #5390: pkg: OpenWSN does not compile This package still uses
   deprecated modules and was not tested for a long time.

native related issues
---------------------

-  #495: native not float safe When the FPU is used when an asynchronous
   context switch occurs, either the stack gets corrupted or a floating
   point exception occurs.
-  #534: native debugging on osx fails Using valgrind or gdb with a
   nativenet target in OSX leads to "the network" being stuck (gdb) or
   the whole process being stuck (valgrind).
-  #334: nativenet crashes when hammered Flood-pinging a native instance
   from more than one host (either multiple threads on the host system
   or multiple other native instances), leads to a SEGFAULT.
-  #2071; WIP: native: overdue fixes
-  #4590: pkg: building relic with clang fails.
-  #5432: native: valgrind fails

other platform related issues
-----------------------------

-  #4560: make: clang is more pedantic than gcc oonf_api is not building
   with clang. (Partly solved by #4593)
-  #4866: not all GPIO driver implementations are thread safe Due to
   non-atomic operations in the drivers some pin configurations might
   get lost. #5486: at86rf2xx: lost interrupts

other issues
------------

-  #1263: TLSF implementation contains (a) read-before-write error(s).
-  #2761: core: define default flags If a thread is created without the
   corresponding flag (CREATE_STACKTEST), the ps command will yield
   wrong numbers for the stack usage.
-  #2927: core: Automatically select the lowest possible LPM mode Not
   all available low power modes (LPMs) are implemented for each
   platform and the concept of how the LPM is chosen needs some
   reconsideration.
-  #2967: Makefile.features: location is not relevant for all features
   Provided features for the build system should be split up into a
   board and cpu specific part
-  #4488: Making the newlib thread-safe When calling puts/printf after
   thread_create(), the CPU hangs for DMA enabled uart drivers.
-  #4841: xtimer: timer already in the list Under some conditions an
   xtimer can end up twice in the internal list of the xtimer module.
-  #5338: xtimer: xtimer_now() not ISR safe For non-32-bit platforms.

Special Thanks
==============

We like to give our special thanks to all the companies that provided us
with their hardware for porting and testing, namely the people from (in
alphabeticalorder): Atmel, Freescale, Limifrog, Nordic, OpenMote,
Phytec, SiLabs, UDOO,and Zolertia; and also companies that directly
sponsored development time:Cisco Systems, Eistec, Ell-i, Enigeering
Spirit, Nordic, FreshTemp LLC, and Phytec.

More information
================

http://www.riot-os.org

Mailing lists
-------------

-  RIOT OS kernel developers list
-  devel@riot-os.org (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/devel)
-  RIOT OS users list
-  users@riot-os.org (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/users)
-  RIOT commits
-  commits@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/commits)
-  Github notifications
-  notifications@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/notifications)

IRC
---

-  Join the RIOT IRC channel at: irc.freenode.net, #riot-os

License
=======

-  Most of the code developed by the RIOT community is licensed under
   the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1 as published
   by the Free Software Foundation.
-  Some external sources are published under a separate, LGPL compatible
   license (e.g. some files developed by SICS).

All code files contain licensing information.
