.. _riot-201707---release-notes:

============================
RIOT-2017.07 - Release Notes
============================

RIOT is a multi-threading operating system which enables soft real-time
capabilities and comes with support for a range of devices that are
typically found in the Internet of Things: 8-bit microcontrollers,
16-bit microcontrollers and light-weight 32-bit processors.

RIOT is based on the following design principles: energy-efficiency,
soft real-time capabilities, small memory footprint, modularity, and
uniform API access, independent of the underlying hardware (with partial
POSIX compliance).

RIOT is developed by an international open-source community which is
independent of specific vendors (e.g. similarly to the Linux community)
and is licensed with a non-viral copyleft license (LGPLv2.1), which
allows indirect business models around the free open-source software
platform provided by RIOT.

About this release:
===================

This release provides fixes, code cleanup and improved documentation, as
well as enhancements. New features brought by this release include:

-  CAN support (Controller Area Network)
-  Support for CoAP OBSERVE requests
-  Basic Thread stack support (initial support for OpenThread)
-  radio duty cycling with LwMAC protocol
-  LoRa radio drivers supporting Semtech hardware

About 230 pull requests with about 442 commits have been merged since
the last release and about 13 issues have been solved. 45 people
contributed with code in 56 days. 1395 files have been touched with
211720 insertions and 65729 deletions.

Notations used below:
=====================

-  means new feature/item

-  means modified feature/item

-  means removed feature/item

New features and changes
========================

API changes
-----------

-  removed conn API

System libraries
----------------

-  AES CMAC encryption
-  GCC's Stack Smashing Protector (SSP) support

-  Remove 3-DES crypto

Networking
----------

-  CAN stack
-  CoAP OBSERVE request
-  LwMAC protocol
-  OpenThread
-  Layer 2 filtering (l2filter)

-  LwIP port to v2.0.2
-  NHDP port to sock API

-  removed conn API

Packages
--------

-  OpenThread

Boards
------

-  Arduino MKR1000 (without WiFi)
-  Nucleo144-f412
-  Nucleo144-f746
-  Nucleo144-f767
-  NZ32-SC151 (STM32L1)
-  ST B-L072-LRWAN1 (with LoRa radio)
-  STM32F769 discovery

-  Full support for PhyNode

CPU
---

-  lm4120: SPI support
-  SAM3: ADC support, DAC support
-  SAMD21: flashpage, ADC support
-  SAML21: ADC, I2C support
-  STM32F413vg support
-  STM32F7 family (ARM Cortex-M7)
-  STM32L0 family: I2C support

-  STM32: unified DAC support
-  STM32F1/F2/F4 clock initialization refactoring

Device Drivers
--------------

-  ADCXX1C I2C ADC support
-  BMP280 temperature/pressure sensor
-  DSP0401 4 digits 16 segment alphanumeric display
-  MMA8x5x motion detection sensor
-  Semtech SX1272 and SX1276 LoRa drivers

Build System
------------

-  EDBG support
-  http download with caching (dlcache)
-  Use Coccinelle static code checker in CI

Special Thanks
==============

We would like to give our special thanks to all the companies that
provided us with their hardware for porting and testing, namely the
people from (in alphabeticalorder): Atmel, Freescale, Imagination
Technologies, Nordic, OpenMote, Phytec, SiLabs, UDOO, and Zolertia; and
also companies that directly sponsored development time: Cisco Systems,
Eïsox, Eistec, Ell-i, Engineering Spirit, Mesotic, Nordic, OTA keys and
Phytec. We also would like to thank people from Inria Chile for their
work on OpenThread integration and Semtech LoRa drivers.

More information
================

http://www.riot-os.org

Mailing lists
-------------

-  RIOT OS kernel developers list devel@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/devel)
-  RIOT OS users list users@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/users)
-  RIOT commits commits@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/commits)
-  Github notifications notifications@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/notifications)

IRC
---

-  Join the RIOT IRC channel at: irc.freenode.net, #riot-os

License
=======

-  The code developed by the RIOT community is licensed under the GNU
   Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1 as published by the
   Free Software Foundation.
-  Some external sources and pkg are published under a separate license.

All code files contain licensing information.
