.. _riot-201704---release-notes:

============================
RIOT-2017.04 - Release Notes
============================

RIOT is a multi-threading operating system which enables soft real-time
capabilities and comes with support for a range of devices that are
typically found in the Internet of Things: 8-bit microcontrollers,
16-bit microcontrollers and light-weight 32-bit processors.

RIOT is based on the following design principles: energy-efficiency,
soft real-time capabilities, small memory footprint, modularity, and
uniform API access, independent of the underlying hardware (with partial
POSIX compliance).

RIOT is developed by an international open-source community which is
independent of specific vendors (e.g. similarly to the Linux community)
and is licensed with a non-viral copyleft license (LGPLv2.1), which
allows indirect business models around the free open-source software
platform provided by RIOT.

About this release:
===================

This release provides a lot of new features, fixes and enhancements.
Among these has been a huge cleanup regarding cppcheck and
documentation, and we're pleased to announce that all remaining doxygen
and cppcheck warnings have been fixed. We're also proud to present a
Virtual File System layer and integration of the SPIFFS file system. A
lot of work has gone into support for STMicroelectronics's Nucleo
family, with RIOT now supporting 28 (up from 13) Nucleo boards. And as
always, there was a lot of under-the-hood cleanup, bug fixing and
documentation work.

About 200 pull requests with about 562 commits have been merged since
the last release and about 23 issues have been solved. 32 people
contributed with code in 91 days. 2697 files have been touched with
716950 insertions and 492623 deletions.

Notations used below:
=====================

-  means new feature/item

-  means modified feature/item

-  means removed feature/item

New features and changes
========================

Core
----

-  full C11 atomics support
-  rmutex, a recursive mutex implementation

API changes
-----------

-  renamed NTOH*() -> ntoh*(), HTON*() -> hton*()

-  removed gpioint API, which was unnused and obsoleted by periph/gpio

-  renamed uuid module to luid

System libraries
----------------

-  VFS: virtual file system layer
-  fmt: add print_byte_hex(), fmt_lpad()

-  3DES: removed support as 3DES is considered legacy crypto

Networking
----------

-  emCute - a small MQTT-SN implementation
-  sock_dns: a simple DNS resolver

Packages
--------

-  SPIFFS, the first file system supported by RIOT's VFS layer
-  jerryscript, a Javascript interpreter

Drivers
-------

-  added dynamixel server motor driver
-  removed ltc4150 driver
-  removed smb380 driver

Build System
------------

-  Experimental distributed building using Murdock
-  most makfiles moved from root into makefiles/
-  added submodule support

Special Thanks
==============

We like to give our special thanks to all the companies that provided us
with their hardware for porting and testing, namely the people from (in
alphabeticalorder): Atmel, Freescale, Imagination Technologies, Nordic,
OpenMote, Phytec, SiLabs, UDOO, and Zolertia; and also companies that
directly sponsored development time: Cisco Systems, Eistec, Ell-i,
Enigeering Spirit, Nordic, OTAkeys and Phytec.

More information
================

http://www.riot-os.org

Mailing lists
-------------

-  RIOT OS kernel developers list devel@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/devel)
-  RIOT OS users list users@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/users)
-  RIOT commits commits@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/commits)
-  Github notifications notifications@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/notifications)

IRC
---

-  Join the RIOT IRC channel at: irc.freenode.net, #riot-os

License
=======

-  Most of the code developed by the RIOT community is licensed under
   the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1 as published
   by the Free Software Foundation.
-  Some external sources are published under a separate, LGPL compatible
   license (e.g. some files developedby SICS).

All code files contain licensing information.
