.. _riot-201804---release-notes:

============================
RIOT-2018.04 - Release Notes
============================

RIOT is a multi-threading operating system which enables soft real-time
capabilities and comes with support for a range of devices that are
typically found in the Internet of Things: 8-bit and 16-bit
microcontrollers as well as light-weight 32-bit processors.

RIOT is based on the following design principles: energy-efficiency,
soft real-time capabilities, small memory footprint, modularity, and
uniform API access, independent of the underlying hardware (with partial
POSIX compliance).

RIOT is developed by an international open-source community which is
independent of specific vendors (e.g. similarly to the Linux community)
and is licensed with a non-viral copyleft license (LGPLv2.1), which
allows indirect business models around the free open-source software
platform provided by RIOT.

About this release:
===================

The 2018.04 release includes major progress in support for current
crypto libraries. A lot of work has gone into updating drivers to RIOT's
unified configuration scheme. Support for ten new boards has been added.
In our quest to improve and automate testing, many test scripts have
been fixed and improved, and RIOT's CI now runs many tests on real
hardware during its nightly build testing. And as usual, many tiny fixes
and improvements have been merged.

About 390 pull requests with about 1073 commits have been merged since
the last release and about 54 issues have been solved. 44 people
contributed with code in 98 days. Approximately 1491 files have been
touched with 208426 insertions.

Notations used below:
=====================

::

   + means new feature/item
   * means modified feature/item
   - means removed feature/item

New features and changes
========================

System libraries
----------------

::

   - cbor: deprecated in favour of cn-cbor
   + hashes: add sha-3 implementation

Networking
----------

::

   * netdev: replaced "struct iovec" with iolist_t
   + nanocoap: added server-side block1 support
   + skald: a BLE advertising stack

Packages
--------

::

   + cayenne-lpp: A Cayenne LPP library written in C
   + HACL*: a formally verified cryptographic library written in F*
   + qDSA: Small and Secure Digital Signatures with Curve-based
           Diffie--Hellman Key Pairs
   + libcose: Constrained node COSE library
   + cn-cbor: A constrained node implementation of CBOR in C
   + ucglib

Boards
------

::

   + arduino-mkrfox1200
   + frdm-kw41z
   + jiminy-mega256rfr2
   + mega-xplained
   + nucleo-l433rc
   + nucleo-l452re
   + slstk3401a
   + slwstk6000b
   + stk3600
   + stk3700

CPU
---

::

   + atmega1284p
   + NXP Kinetis KW41Z

Device Drivers
--------------

::

   + bmx055: Bosch bmx055 9-axis IMU
   + ata8520e: Microchip ATA8520E Sigfox(tm) transceiver

.. _build-system--tooling:

Build System / Tooling
----------------------

::

   + ci: initial on-hardware test support

Known Issues
============

Please refer to the issue tracker at
https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/issues.

Acknowledgements
================

We would like to thank all companies (vendors) that provided us with
(their) hardware for porting and testing RIOT-OS. Further thanks go to
companies and institutions that directly sponsored development time. And
finally, big thanks to all of you contributing in so many different ways
to make RIOT worthwhile!

More information
================

http://www.riot-os.org

Mailing lists
-------------

-  RIOT OS kernel developers list devel@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/devel)
-  RIOT OS users list users@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/users)
-  RIOT commits commits@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/commits)
-  Github notifications notifications@riot-os.org
   (http://lists.riot-os.org/mailman/listinfo/notifications)

IRC
---

-  Join the RIOT IRC channel at: irc.freenode.net, #riot-os

License
=======

-  The code developed by the RIOT community is licensed under the GNU
   Lesser General Public License (LGPL) version 2.1 as published by the
   Free Software Foundation.
-  Some external sources and packages are published under a separate
   license.

All code files contain licensing information.
