boards/common/native/doc.md, before:

@defgroup    boards_common_native Common Native Board
@ingroup     boards_common
@brief       Shared files and configuration for native.

# Overview

The RIOT native boards use system calls and signals to emulate hardware at the API level.
That means that you can compile the complete RIOT software stack for your *NIX system
and run it as a process. Reasons why you might want to do that are:
- You want to try out RIOT but don't have one of the supported hardware platforms
- You are developing an application for RIOT or you are hacking on RIOT itself and
  want to test and debug without the limitations and requirements of debugging on actual hardware
- You want to experiment with network protocols in a [controlled environment](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/wiki/Virtual-riot-network)

Two different boards are currently available, depending on the host platform: @ref boards_native32
and @ref boards_native64. Using `BOARD=native` will automatically select the right variant.

![Terminal running RIOT native](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/RIOT-OS/RIOT/images/Native.jpg)

# Hardware
- CPU: Host CPU
- RAM: Host RAM
- Flash:
    - for program execution: Host file system
    - for the @ref drivers_periph_flashpage : emulated in RAM
- Network: Tap Interface
- UART: Runtime configurable - `/dev/tty*` are supported
- Timers: Host timer
- LEDs: One red and one green LED - state changes are printed to the UART
- PWM: Dummy PWM
- QDEC: Emulated according to PWM
- SPI: Runtime configurable - `/dev/spidev*` are supported (Linux host only)
- GPIO: Runtime configurable - `/dev/gpiochip*` are supported (Linux host only)

# Configuration

Some aspects of a native RIOT instance can be configured at runtime.
To get an overview invoke the program with the `-h` option. Example:
```shell
$ examples/basic/default/bin/native64/default.elf -h
usage: examples/basic/default/bin/native64/default.elf <tap interface 1> [-i <id>] [-d] [-e|-E] [-o] [-c <tty>] [-g <gpiochip>] [-i <id>] [-d] [-e|-E] [-o] [-c <tty>] [--eui64 <eui64> …]

help: examples/basic/default/bin/native64/default.elf -h

Options:
    -h, --help
        print this help message
    -i <id>, --id=<id>
        specify instance id (set by config module)
    -s <seed>, --seed=<seed>
        specify srandom(3) seed (/dev/random is used instead of random(3) if
        the option is omitted)
    -d, --daemonize
        daemonize native instance
    -e, --stderr-pipe
        redirect stderr to file
    -E, --stderr-noredirect
        do not redirect stderr (i.e. leave sterr unchanged despite
        daemon/socket io)
    -o, --stdout-pipe
        redirect stdout to file (/tmp/riot.stdout.PID) when not attached
        to socket
    -c <tty>, --uart-tty=<tty>
        specify TTY device for UART. This argument can be used multiple
        times (up to UART_NUMOF)
    -g <gpio>, --gpio=<gpio>
        specify gpiochip device for GPIO access.
        This argument can be used multiple times.
        Example: --gpio=/dev/gpiochip0 uses gpiochip0 for port 0
    -U <eui64>, --eui64=<eui64>
        provide a ZEP interface with EUI-64 (MAC address)
        This argument can be provided multiple times
    -w <tap>
        Add a tap interface as a wireless interface
```

As with any platform, you can specify the sizes of your stacks, i.e. the amount of space your application can use.
You may wish to use a more realistic stack size than native's `THREAD_STACKSIZE_DEFAULT` to increase realism.

# Known Issues
Check the list of open issues labeled native in the [github issue tracker](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22Platform%3A%20native%22)

Commit message:

board/native: add RTC at UTC documentation

boards/common/native/doc.md, after:

@defgroup    boards_common_native Common Native Board
@ingroup     boards_common
@brief       Shared files and configuration for native.

# Overview

The RIOT native boards use system calls and signals to emulate hardware at the API level.
That means that you can compile the complete RIOT software stack for your *NIX system
and run it as a process. Reasons why you might want to do that are:
- You want to try out RIOT but don't have one of the supported hardware platforms
- You are developing an application for RIOT or you are hacking on RIOT itself and
  want to test and debug without the limitations and requirements of debugging on actual hardware
- You want to experiment with network protocols in a [controlled environment](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/wiki/Virtual-riot-network)

Two different boards are currently available, depending on the host platform: @ref boards_native32
and @ref boards_native64. Using `BOARD=native` will automatically select the right variant.

![Terminal running RIOT native](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/RIOT-OS/RIOT/images/Native.jpg)

# Hardware
- CPU: Host CPU
- RAM: Host RAM
- Flash:
    - for program execution: Host file system
    - for the @ref drivers_periph_flashpage : emulated in RAM
- Network: Tap Interface
- UART: Runtime configurable - `/dev/tty*` are supported
- Timers: Host timer
- RTC: host time at `UTC` for consistent behavior with embedded systems.
  The environment variable `TZ` can be used to explicitly set a specific or hosts timezone (see [below](#setting-a-timezone)).
- LEDs: One red and one green LED - state changes are printed to the UART
- PWM: Dummy PWM
- QDEC: Emulated according to PWM
- SPI: Runtime configurable - `/dev/spidev*` are supported (Linux host only)
- GPIO: Runtime configurable - `/dev/gpiochip*` are supported (Linux host only)

# Configuration

Some aspects of a native RIOT instance can be configured at runtime.
To get an overview invoke the program with the `-h` option. Example:
```shell
$ examples/basic/default/bin/native64/default.elf -h
usage: examples/basic/default/bin/native64/default.elf <tap interface 1> [-i <id>] [-d] [-e|-E] [-o] [-c <tty>] [-g <gpiochip>] [-i <id>] [-d] [-e|-E] [-o] [-c <tty>] [--eui64 <eui64> …]

help: examples/basic/default/bin/native64/default.elf -h

Options:
    -h, --help
        print this help message
    -i <id>, --id=<id>
        specify instance id (set by config module)
    -s <seed>, --seed=<seed>
        specify srandom(3) seed (/dev/random is used instead of random(3) if
        the option is omitted)
    -d, --daemonize
        daemonize native instance
    -e, --stderr-pipe
        redirect stderr to file
    -E, --stderr-noredirect
        do not redirect stderr (i.e. leave sterr unchanged despite
        daemon/socket io)
    -o, --stdout-pipe
        redirect stdout to file (/tmp/riot.stdout.PID) when not attached
        to socket
    -c <tty>, --uart-tty=<tty>
        specify TTY device for UART. This argument can be used multiple
        times (up to UART_NUMOF)
    -g <gpio>, --gpio=<gpio>
        specify gpiochip device for GPIO access.
        This argument can be used multiple times.
        Example: --gpio=/dev/gpiochip0 uses gpiochip0 for port 0
    -U <eui64>, --eui64=<eui64>
        provide a ZEP interface with EUI-64 (MAC address)
        This argument can be provided multiple times
    -w <tap>
        Add a tap interface as a wireless interface
```

As with any platform, you can specify the sizes of your stacks, i.e. the amount of space your application can use.
You may wish to use a more realistic stack size than native's `THREAD_STACKSIZE_DEFAULT` to increase realism.

# Setting a timezone                                      {#setting-a-timezone}

RIOT native defaults to `UTC` timezone if `TZ` is not set in the environment,
to keep behavior of `time.h` functions like `mktime` consistent with embedded setups,
which usually do not use timezones.
If your application requires the same timezone as host, the `TZ` environment variable should be set accordingly.
There are several ways to achieve that:
- execute `export TZ=":/etc/localtime"` prior `make term`
  in the very shell you intend to run `make term` in
- add `export TZ=":/etc/localtime"` to your `~/.profile`
- run `TZ=":/etc/localtime" make term`

The timezone can also be set at runtime by the application for both native and embedded devices using `setenv("TZ", <timezonestring>, 1)`. `picolibc` and `newlibc` expect `<timezonestring>` to have the form `NAME+/-hh:mm:ss<DST-handling>` (`+` pointing west -> `CET-1` adds 1 hour to UTC, see `man timezone`)
e.g., `ACST-9:30ACDT-10:30,M10.1.0,M4.1.0`.
If the `TZ`-string can not be interpreted by the used `libc` (`newlib`,`picolibc`,`glibc`),
they default back to `UTC`.

@warning Some things will behave faulty, since the assumption of most pkgs and
        system modules is to run on a embedded system with no timezone set.
        One often used function that respect timezone setting is `mktime`

# Known Issues
Check the list of open issues labeled native in the [github issue tracker](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22Platform%3A%20native%22)
