boards/nucleo-l073rz/doc.md, before:

@defgroup    boards_nucleo-l073rz STM32 Nucleo-L073RZ
@ingroup     boards_common_nucleo64
@brief       Support for the STM32 Nucleo-L073RZ


## Overview

The Nucleo-L073RZ is a board from ST's Nucleo family supporting ARM Cortex-M0
STM32L073RZT6 microcontroller with 20KiB of RAM and 192KiB of Flash.

## Pinout

@image html pinouts/nucleo-l073rz.svg "Pinout for the Nucleo-L073RZ (from STM user manual UM1724, http://www.st.com/resource/en/user_manual/dm00105823.pdf, page 33)" width=50%

### MCU

| MCU        |    STM32L073RZ      |
|:---------- |:------------------- |
| Family     | ARM Cortex-M0+      |
| Vendor     | ST Microelectronics |
| RAM        | 20KiB               |
| Flash      | 192KiB              |
| EEPROM     | 6KB                 |
| Frequency  | up to 32MHz         |
| FPU        | no                  |
| Timers     | 11 (7x 16-bit, 1x RTC, 1x Systick, 2x Watchdog) |
| ADCs       | 1x 12-bit (16 channels) |
| UARTs      | 5 (four USARTs and one Low-Power UART) |
| SPIs       | 6                   |
| I2Cs       | 3                   |
| Vcc        | 1.65V - 3.6V        |
| Datasheet  | [Datasheet](https://www.st.com/resource/en/datasheet/stm32l073rz.pdf) |
| Reference Manual | [Reference Manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/reference_manual/rm0367-ultralowpower-stm32l0x3-advanced-armbased-32bit-mcus-stmicroelectronics.pdf) |
| Programming Manual | [Programming Manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/programming_manual/pm0223-stm32-cortexm0-mcus-programming-manual-stmicroelectronics.pdf) |
| Board Manual | [Board Manual](http://www.st.com/st-web-ui/static/active/en/resource/technical/document/user_manual/DM00105823.pdf) |

## Flashing the Board Using ST-LINK Removable Media

On-board ST-LINK programmer provides via composite USB device removable media.
Copying the HEX file causes reprogramming of the board. This task
could be performed manually; however, the cpy2remed (copy to removable
media) PROGRAMMER script does this automatically. To program board in
this manner, use the command:
```
make BOARD=nucleo-l073rz PROGRAMMER=cpy2remed flash
```
@note This PROGRAMMER was tested using ST-LINK firmware 2.37.26. Firmware updates
      can be found on [this STM webpage](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stsw-link007.html).

Commit message:

boards/nucleo-*: migrate to Flashing Guide, point to common doc

boards/nucleo-l073rz/doc.md, after:

@defgroup    boards_nucleo-l073rz STM32 Nucleo-L073RZ
@ingroup     boards_common_nucleo64
@brief       Support for the STM32 Nucleo-L073RZ

## Overview

The Nucleo-L073RZ is a board from ST's Nucleo family supporting ARM Cortex-M0
STM32L073RZT6 microcontroller with 20KiB of RAM and 192KiB of Flash.

You can find general information about the Nucleo64 boards on the
@ref boards_common_nucleo64 page.

## Pinout

@image html pinouts/nucleo-l073rz.svg "Pinout for the Nucleo-L073RZ (from STM user manual UM1724, http://www.st.com/resource/en/user_manual/dm00105823.pdf, page 33)" width=50%

### MCU

| MCU        |    STM32L073RZ      |
|:---------- |:------------------- |
| Family     | ARM Cortex-M0+      |
| Vendor     | ST Microelectronics |
| RAM        | 20KiB               |
| Flash      | 192KiB              |
| EEPROM     | 6KB                 |
| Frequency  | up to 32MHz         |
| FPU        | no                  |
| Timers     | 11 (7x 16-bit, 1x RTC, 1x Systick, 2x Watchdog) |
| ADCs       | 1x 12-bit (16 channels) |
| UARTs      | 5 (four USARTs and one Low-Power UART) |
| SPIs       | 6                   |
| I2Cs       | 3                   |
| Vcc        | 1.65V - 3.6V        |
| Datasheet  | [Datasheet](https://www.st.com/resource/en/datasheet/stm32l073rz.pdf) |
| Reference Manual | [Reference Manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/reference_manual/rm0367-ultralowpower-stm32l0x3-advanced-armbased-32bit-mcus-stmicroelectronics.pdf) |
| Programming Manual | [Programming Manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/programming_manual/pm0223-stm32-cortexm0-mcus-programming-manual-stmicroelectronics.pdf) |
| Board Manual | [Board Manual](http://www.st.com/st-web-ui/static/active/en/resource/technical/document/user_manual/DM00105823.pdf) |

## Flashing the Board

A detailed description about the flashing process can be found on the
[guides page](https://guide.riot-os.org/board_specific/stm32/).
The board name for the Nucleo-L073RZ is `nucleo-l073rz`.
